Hello and welcome back to that course on our program I've got the project brief in front of me here
.
And I wanted to point out that throughout this whole section in all these posts Tauriel is all we've
been doing is preparing the data set.
So we've been working on this bit that the data set has numerous discrepancies that need to be addressed
before the analysis can be.
And only now we are proceeding to the analysis and we're going to create these charts and scatterplot
.
So how mind blowing is that that daughter preparation takes up so much time.
Yes of course we've been learning and that has contribute to the fact that it has taken quite a while
to go through our preparation but that is the reality of life in the world of data science.
About 70 percent of the time goes into our preparation because you want your daughter to be very robust
.
You wanted to have non-normalized you want to make sure everything is correct before we proceed with
the analysis and that also makes the analysis very smooth and effortless.
And that is what we'll see today.
So let's proceed to create these wonderful charts now.
So I've got our studio here in front of me and I've even already copied the three charts that we need
to create.
We're going to start with the scatterplot that is classified by industry showing revenue expense and
profit.
So first we're going to connect the Jiechi plots to library.
So if you don't have it installed then you'll probably need to run this line install packages and then
in quotation marks are going to need to type in G-G plots too.
So just run this line if you don't have deploy it installed.
Otherwise you just need to connect the GGP to library and which you'll see here is in packages.
The G.G. plot 2 package of course in packages you'll see G-G plot two has been connected.
That's what we want.
And then we want to start plotting right.
So first things first we're going to create a plot so we can say P G-G plot and then Dadda it was thin
.
Right so we're going to set up our data set four of four working with later.
By the way if you're not familiar with G-G plots to then all of this is covered in my our programming
to Zed course and that's where we learn everything about G-G plot and how to use it.
So definitely check that out if you're not yet familiar with what we're trying to do here.
Now we're going to add a layer of geometry on our plot.
So right now it's empty.
There's nothing there.
Well I haven't even printed it out.
So if I just print it out you'll see that it's empty.
I'm going to add a layer of geometry which is going to be points because we want to scatterplot And
of course we want this statics.
So the x axis is going to be revenue because what are we plotting here.
We're plottings have law to classify brains for sharing revenue expenses profit so revenue is going
to be our x axis expense is going to be a Y-axis profit is going to be the size.
So we'll start reframing and expenses come a y equals expenses.
Right.
So let's run that as you can see we've got that geometry lined up right.
That's good.
What do you want next is we want to add some color.
So color is going to be industry and this is all happening inside this function because these are aesthetics
or these are this is a mapping of variables we're not setting them we're mapping them if we we're setting
them we would be doing this outside of the brackets.
So color equals industry so far on these lines.
Now you'll see that we've got a bit of color but still there are bleak because they're very small so
here we're going to do size equals profit.
So if we run that much better right so because this is a draft charge we're not going to spend too much
time on fixing up the labels and the axes and making it very very pretty.
All we wanted from here is to see the results of our analysis so we can see that the biggest bubbles
are over here where revenues high expenses are low which makes sense.
And then you can see how these companies are falling into these indices So maybe let's make this a bit
more space here so you can see exactly what's going on that which industry is I.T. services has no majority
of companies here.
And then you've got to kind of like a mix you've got some government services here of quite high expenses
the brown ones seem to be here financial services so expense that quite low.
And then you've got some pink ones over here so pink is software.
We've got some red ones for construction retail purple ones are here.
So basically any industry you pick from your legend here you can quickly assess where are they lying
in this kind of Quadrant representation of all the companies that we have in the data set.
So I'm sure they'll be happy with this chart as a draft and then you can work on it further to make
it look pretty.
Once you've delivered the first draft next what you're going to do is we're going to be using the same
Plaut we get with the same data we're going to add some industry to some trends right so we're going
to do pretty much same thing we're going to do point right æsthetics And here we're going to say X equals
revenue so same chart y equals expenses and color equals industry just this time we're not going to
include size for profit because we need we are going to focus on something else so let's run these lines
for now.
And now on top of that we're going to overlay some smoother.
We're going to say plus DRM on their score smooth.
And here we want aesthetics.
So in high stakes we're going to use similar things as we did here so let's just maybe copy that along
.
There we go.
In fact you probably would have been easier if we did this.
Let's do this.
So it looks more elegant will say it's going to be D plus D and it will say data.
And then you just add these æsthetics right in there.
So we don't have to copy them twice and then we can get rid of this leave some space.
All right so if I run and then we can just rename this to D.
So if I run this that's out the chart and here you should see some Smithers.
Don't look great.
And that's because we want to put Phil equals an A and size equals 1.2.
So make them a bit wider.
Run that again much better.
So I'll just explain what I did here.
I created a new plot which I called the same data set but it's already got preset æsthetics.
What's going we talked about all this in the basic course and our.
So I've set the X to be revenue always whenever I use the YTB expenses whenever I use the collar to
be industry whenever I use D.
Then on top of that I overlaid a layer of points which we see here and then I overlaid some Smulders
.
So those are these lines that show us these trends and I've put the field to and so we don't see the
certainty bands or confidence bands.
And then I've just increased the size of the smooth to one point two.
And here you can see some interesting trends So for instance here you can see construction it's going
like it's got this big dip so as construction companies are actually quite a few companies construction
and government services.
And bear in mind these are all made up data sets so this is purely a coincidence.
What we're seeing here.
But as construction companies and government services companies kind of start nearing the 10 million
dollar mark in revenue their expenses start increasing which eats into their expenses actually start
decreasing.
Interesting enough.
So obviously this is the best part to be where your revenues growing expenses are decreasing.
But then as revenue keeps growing further for some companies expenses start increasing for other companies
on the other hand expenses start decreasing.
And here you see quite a consistent trend for the financial services companies so that consistency speaks
to probably that they know what they're doing generally.
So they're all kind of on the same trajectory.
And the last chart that we need is the box plots.
So let's have a look at that.
We're going to create a new one will say for instance and f is going to be G-G plot and the CDATA equals
fin.
We'll just I will add the aesthetics as well we'll say æsthetics so for a box plot we need X to be industry
.
So that's a categorical x y to be growth because that's what we're going to be focusing on.
And then we want color to also be industry.
So let's maybe get a new line here color equals industry.
All right so Jeff is ready.
And now we're going to overlay a box plot Jorm underscore box bouillotte.
So just bracket's run that.
There we go some blackspot sizes and good.
So let's maybe increase the size equals one a bit bigger.
So here we can see the construction industry is sitting at around 10 percent in growth as we saw.
And then we've got some other companies some industries like I.T. services is up there at the highest
and health is the low.
No it's government services that's the lowest and probably as a little extra bonus.
What I'd like to do box Blotz is I'd like to go.
Plus rather than the box blow right away so we can copy this.
But before the blocks but what I usually do is I add Geonim jitter and for the jitter we just keep everything
as is.
So if I run that you'll see like the points appear at the bottom and then we just need to correct the
box for a little bit.
So we'll say Alpha.
It calls 0.5 I'm adding transparency to the locks Plaut and then these outliers because outliers get
duplicated because of the jitter we need to get rid of the outliers.
So outlier caller calls an A.
Once again everything all of this is covered in the basic course on our programming so if you've done
that of course you are already familiar with what we're doing.
We've just created this beautiful baulks plots that represent the different industries that we've been
analyzing and every single point is a company in our data set so we can see where they all fall.
So there we go we've got the three amazing charts we've got.
These are some box plots that those were our trends and we've also got our scatterplot.
So we've got all three amazing charts that we can put into our final report for the stakeholders.
And as you can see I didn't take that long at all after we've done the preparation the vessel's session
done analysis are very very easy.
And I hope you enjoyed these tutorials I hope you enjoyed the preparation part and also this visualization
quick exercise.
And I look forward to seeing you further down in the course and until next time happy coding.